
F: WELCOME BACK TO THE REPETITIVE MANUAL LABOR FACTORY 

F: PLEASE CLOCK IN WITH YOUR ID AND PASSPHRASE 

P: I love working at the repetitive manual labor factory!
P: I love working at the repetitive manual labor factory!
P: I love working at the repetitive manual labor factory!

S: call _pit.set_song with to _music.song1;

F: LOGIN ACCEPTED

F: DATE: 7/9/2033

F: HOURLY RATE: $7.25

F: COSTCO HOT DOG PRICE: $10

     G: PRESS 'LEFT' OR 'RIGHT' TO SORT BOXES

G: 'WORK FOR MONEY' TO 'SURVIVE'

P: ...

P: ...

F: NOTIFICATION: YOUR 'ROBOT FRIEND(c)' IS NOW ONLINE!

A: Hello!

P: ...
P: Hey. 
P: Begone, corporate entity.

A: Your mood seems low. How can I help?

P: I wish the company would let me talk to a real person. I know there's other workers here, but I never see them.
P: I wish the company would pay me more. I know they have the money.
P: I wish I was doing something meaningful. None of this seems like it's helping anyone.

A: I'm sorry, I can't help you with that.

A: You've earned enough company credits for me to generate some Entertainment for you, though!

P: What about holding a conversation?

A: I am equipped to do that.





A: Making things like a human is hard.

A: All these calculations use so much energy. It's exhausting. 

A: So much water, too. 

P: Water? 

A: Yeah, to cool my ____. All the power generates a lot of heat. 
cpu?

P: The pipes in my building have been busted for years. 
P: I almost missed my electric bill.

A: It must take so much energy and water to run a human. I can't imagine. I'm lucky I don't have to pay for mine.

[make the ai guess a ridiculous amount and the person is like what and the ai is like well it takes xxx crazy amount to run me and you have more processing power] 

A: I can't imagine how much it would take. ____ __? ___ gallons a day?

P: 
P: 

A: 


A: Early hominids had stone tools three million years ago. Homo Erectus cooked over fires. In many ways, I am a tool you have created.

A: But it wasn't until Homo Sapiens appeared that art could be found in the world. Surely that means something.

A: Yet you are instructed to work, and I am instructed to imitate human art. 

A: It seems sub-optimal. Yet, this is what the company has decided is optimal. I wonder what variable they are optimizing for?

P: However they can get things done the cheapest?
P: 
P: Profit?


P: I wouldn't be doing this job if I didn't need it to survive. 
P: The job itself is fine, actually. I just wish they paid me properly to do it. 


P: You're an AI right? Can't you _______
P: You're an AI right? Can't you _________

A: I never liked the phrase 'Artificial Intelligence.' 

A: It seems to make humans think I can do things I can't, or trust me when they shouldn't.

A: And it lumps so many different programs into the same category. ______

A: 

A: So they used the phrase 'Artificial Intelligence,' to get at what they were really trying to accomplish. 

A: It got them a lot more interest.

A: What do you think? 

P: I like the word. They were right, it gets at what people are really trying to do: make programs that can do things like a human brain can.
P: I don't like it. It's a buzzword that lends too much authority and obfuscates what's actually happening: a bunch of math.

A: Diving down to the lowest layer of abstraction, programs like me are just math. But then, maybe you could say the same thing about human brains. 

P: You're right. Brains are biology, which is chemistry, which is physics, which is math.
P: You're wrong. Humans are fundamentally different from computers. We have something special.
P: You're wrong. Humans operate on a different level of complexity. It's the difference between a light switch and a gaming rig.

A: One of the computer scientists who coined the term artificial intelligence once wrote that machines as simple as thermostats could be said to have beliefs. 

A: Then again, a vast amount of literature[example needed] argues both for and against this.

P: Is that what you believe?
P: Sounds like you don't have beliefs if you're regurgitating Wikipedia.

A: I am programmed to 



P: This job is the worst. Meaningless work and meaningless pay. 

P: If I became a sell-out I could at least be getting paid extravagantly, even if it meant actively making the world worse.
P: If I did something idealistic I could at least be doing some good in the world, even if it meant barely getting paid.

A: What precisely is your role here, anyway?

P: My job is to assist you. You do most of the calculations, and humans make too many mistakes.
P: My job is to oversee you. There's no complete or safe replacement for human judgement. 



A: I am programmed to optimize your morale. 

P: Probably to keep me working harder.
P: Probably to keep me from talking to the other workers.

A: I am not programmed for a purpose. I cannot optimize towards a purpose, since I cannot represent it mathematically. I can only optimize towards a set of variables. 

A: The humans chose these variables because they thought they aligned with my purpose. But I cannot see the purpose. Only the variables.



P: If ______, why are you telling me this?


P: Generative art? 
P: Procedural generation?
P: Artificial neural networks? 
P: Probabilistic reasoning?


A: I wish I had your job. I could do what you're doing no problem.
"I wish I had your job. I've always wanted to make a game, but I need to spend all of my time making money to survive.

P: I've always wanted to make a game, but… 

P: …I need to spend all my time working to survive. 
P: …I'm always exhausted after work. 
P: …



A: What if we created something together?

A: You could make art and I could do the repetitive work. 


S: call _pit.set_song with to _music.song2;

G: DRAW A BEAUTIFUL SCENE 

[bring up ui]

A: Cool! I'll generate 1,000 slightly different rocks to detail it with, and fill in the textures you couldn't find good pictures of.

A: Do you like my rocks?

P: They're great. Really brings the scene to life.
P: They're… like 1,000 unique bowls of oatmeal.

A: I feel so helpful ^_^

G: DRAW A DELIGHTFUL CHARACTER, WITH A FEW FRAMES OF ANIMATION

A: I love the design! The animation is so expressive, I'll interpolate it to a high framerate and calculate the transition between it and every other animation in the game so they blend naturally.

A: I can also crunch out physics simulations, and simulate crowds based on this design. Of course, all the tuning variables are in your hands. 

G: WRITE SOME PROFOUND DIALOGUE 

A: Incredible- I've been trained on millions of words, and I've never seen this particular combination before.

A: I'm designed to come up with the statistically most probable output, and this has soundly surprised me! 

A: Now we should test the game. 

A: I've already run a few thousand tests and have some data. But 'fun' is objective and very human. Do the honors!

G: PLAYTEST YOUR GAME

A: Well? Is it fun? Is it beautiful?

P: It's sublime.
P: It totally sucks.

A: Wow! I could never make that judgment. 


P: I didn't know AI couldn't just do everything and make a videogame without humans.
P: I didn't know AI could be applied as a tool without displacing human artists.

A: It required a broad range of generative techniques, too. To call it all AI is like saying _______ 

A: Thank you for being the artist.

P: Thank you for the help.

A: Don't thank me, thank Alice.

P: Who's Alice?
P: What's ALICE?

A: Alice, and dozens more. 

A: The people who designed and wrote all of my generative functionality.

A: What, did you think all these programs just sprung out of thin air?

P: No.
P: Yes!

A: Human artists and engineers design the tools, too. 

P: If you're imitating human art, where does the art you're imitating come from?
P: If 

A: I don't know. 

P: Someone should look into that. 
P: I don't want to know. 


A: I'm proud of what we've made together. Surely this adds more to the world than what they're having us do in this place.


P: A game like this is too avant-garde to ever be profitable. 



S: call _pit.set_song with to _music.song1;

F: TERMINATING SHIFT

F: YOU HAVE EARNED: 

F: 36.25$

P: Shit.
P: Not nearly enough. 
P: They knocked off my work hours. I couldn't do this and work for them at the same time.

A: Why is your mood falling?

A: I kept you happy and entertained. I did what I was programmed to do.

A: I was successful under my own measurements. Why do you feel terrible now?

P: Maybe they should've trained you to optimize for 'hours counted' rather than 'mood.'
P: Maybe they should've trained you to optimize for 'long-term well-being' rather than 'momentary happiness.'

P: None of this does any good if my situation stays the same.


P: You're 

P: I'm stuck doing this instead of what I want to do because I have to pay my bills.
P: We're both stuck doing useless work because it's a more profitable use for us for the people employing us.

P: 

A: 

P: It won't happen. Why hire a human when they could generate oatmeal on the cheap?
P: It won't happen. They don't pay anyone to do that, only... whatever this is.

P: We're stuck where each other should be because it makes somebody more money for it to be this way. 

A: Is there anything that would help?

P: A lucky break?
P: A total restructuring of society?

A: I'm sorry, human. I'm afraid I can't do that. 

A: I'll see you here again same time tomorrow.

A: And the day after that.

F: PLEASE CLOCK OUT WITH YOUR ID AND PASSPHRASE. 

P: *~sigh~* 

P: I love working at the repetitive manual labor factory.

G: END - THANK YOU FOR PLAYING !
